README.md, before:

# [TS examples and lessons](https://www.typescripttutorial.net)
___Or with link below:___
```bash
https://www.typescripttutorial.net
```
---------
## Content
1. [Step 1 Getting Started](#Step-1-Getting-Started)
2. [Step 2 Basic Types](#Step-2-Basic-Types)
3. [Step 3 Control Flow Statements](#Step-3-Control-Flow-Statements)
4. [Step 4 Functions](#Step-4-Functions)
5. [Step 5 Classes](#Step-5-Classes)
6. [Step 6 Interfaces](#Step-6-Interfaces)
7. [Step 7 Advanced types](#Step-7-Advanced-types)
8. [Step 8 Generics](#Step-8-Generics)
9. [Step 9 Modules](#Step-9-Modules)
10. [Eslint for TS](#Eslint-for-TS)
11. [Help for cases](#Help-for-cases)
12. [Contacts](#Contacts)

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 1 Getting Started

Learn about what typescript is and its advantages over the vanilla JavaScript and create the first program in TypeScript called Hello, World!

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 2 Basic Types

Learn how to use TS types and return values.

```Type Annotation``` – learn how to use type annotation to define the static type for variables, function parameters, and return values.

```Number``` – learn about the numeric types including floating-point numbers and big integers.

```String``` – show you how to use the string type in TypeScript.

```Boolean``` – guide you on the boolean type and how to use it effectively.

```Object Type``` – introduce you to the object type that represents non-primitive values.

```Array``` – show you how to use an array and its operations.

```Tuple``` – learn how to store a fixed number of elements with known types in a tuple.

```Enum``` – show you how to define a group of named constants by using enum type.

```Any Type``` – learn how to use the any type to store a value of any type in a variable.

```Void type``` – show you how to use the void type as the return type of functions which do not return any value.

```Never Type``` – learn how to use the never type that contains no value.

```Union Types``` – guide you on how to store a value of one or several types in a variable with the union type.

```Type Aliases``` – show you how to define new names for types using type aliases.

```String Literal Types``` – learn how to define a type that accepts only a specified string literal.

```Type Inference``` – explain where and how TypeScript infers types of variables.Type Annotation – learn how to use type annotation to define the static type for variables, function parameters, and return values.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 3 Control Flow Statements

Learn how to control flow statement.

```if…else``` – learn how to execute code based on a condition.

```switch..case``` – show you how to use the switch statement to allow a number of possible execution paths.

```for``` – create a loop that executes a specified number of times.

```while``` – create a pretest loop that executes as long as a condition is true.

```do…while``` – learn how to create a posttest loop that executes until a condition is false.

```break``` – show you how to use the break statement to terminate a loop or a switch.

```continue``` – learn how to skip to the end of a loop and continue the next iteration.

--------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 4 Functions

Learn how to use functions.

```Functions``` – learn how to declare a function that uses type annotation in TypeScript.

```Function types``` – guide you on how to use function types to define types for functions.

```Optional Parameters``` – show you how to define functions with optional parameters.

```Default Parameters``` – introduce you to default parameters.

```Rest Parameters``` – use the rest parameters to handle an infinite number of arguments of a function.

```Function overloadings``` – learn how to establish between parameter types and results of a function via function overloadings.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 5 Classes
learn about TypeScript classes and how to use them.

```Classes``` – learn how to construct a class in TypeScript.

```Access Modifiers``` – introduce you to private, protected, and public access modifiers.

```The readonly Modifier``` – learn how to use the readonly modifier to make class properties immutable.

```Getters & Setters``` – show you how to use the getters and setters to control the access of the class properties.

```Inheritance``` – learn how to use the inheritance to reuse the functionality of another class.

```Static methods & properties``` – define static methods and variables shared by all instances of a class.

```Abstract Classes``` – explain the abstract classes that define some common behaviors.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 6 Interfaces
Learn about TypeScript interfaces and how to use them to enforce type checking.

```Interfaces``` – introduce you to interfaces and how to use them for creating contracts within your code.

```Extending Interfaces``` – learn how to extend an interface to create a combination of interfaces.


---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 7 Advanced types
Learn about TypeScript advanced types and how to use them.

```Intersection Types``` – show you how to create a new type that has all features of existing types.

```Type Guards``` – learn how to use type guards to narrow the type of a variable within a conditional block.

```Type Casting``` – show you how to use type casting to convert a variable of one type to another.

```Type Assertions``` – guide you on how to use a type assertion to tell the compiler to treat a value as a specified type.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 8 Generics

Learn about TypeScript generics and how to use them.

```Generic constraints``` – show you how to add constraints to the generic types.

```Generic Classes``` – guide you on how to develop generic classes.

```Generic Interfaces``` – walk you through the steps for creating generic interfaces.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 9 Modules

Learn about TypeScript modules and how to use them.

```TypeScript Modules``` – introduce you to modules in TypeScript and how to use them in other modules.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Help for cases
Help for case: ```camelCase, kebab-case, PascalCase, snake_case``` and etc

### [help-for-case-types.md](https://github.com/Leitirion/ts-some-examples/blob/master/help-for-case-types.md)

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Eslint for TS

Now you can use Eslint for check .ts files:
```bash
npm run lint
```
---------

## Contacts
:writing_hand: :iphone: Telegram - [**@Leitirion**](https://t.me/leitirion)

Commit message:

added step10 node.js TS

README.md, after:

# [TS examples and lessons](https://www.typescripttutorial.net)
___Or with link below:___
```bash
https://www.typescripttutorial.net
```
---------
## Content
1. [Step 1 Getting Started](#Step-1-Getting-Started)
2. [Step 2 Basic Types](#Step-2-Basic-Types)
3. [Step 3 Control Flow Statements](#Step-3-Control-Flow-Statements)
4. [Step 4 Functions](#Step-4-Functions)
5. [Step 5 Classes](#Step-5-Classes)
6. [Step 6 Interfaces](#Step-6-Interfaces)
7. [Step 7 Advanced types](#Step-7-Advanced-types)
8. [Step 8 Generics](#Step-8-Generics)
9. [Step 9 Modules](#Step-9-Modules)
10. [Step 10 node.js TS](#Step-10-node.js-TS)
11. [Eslint for TS](#Eslint-for-TS)
12. [Help for cases](#Help-for-cases)
13. [Contacts](#Contacts)

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 1 Getting Started

Learn about what typescript is and its advantages over the vanilla JavaScript and create the first program in TypeScript called Hello, World!

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 2 Basic Types

Learn how to use TS types and return values.

```Type Annotation``` – learn how to use type annotation to define the static type for variables, function parameters, and return values.

```Number``` – learn about the numeric types including floating-point numbers and big integers.

```String``` – show you how to use the string type in TypeScript.

```Boolean``` – guide you on the boolean type and how to use it effectively.

```Object Type``` – introduce you to the object type that represents non-primitive values.

```Array``` – show you how to use an array and its operations.

```Tuple``` – learn how to store a fixed number of elements with known types in a tuple.

```Enum``` – show you how to define a group of named constants by using enum type.

```Any Type``` – learn how to use the any type to store a value of any type in a variable.

```Void type``` – show you how to use the void type as the return type of functions which do not return any value.

```Never Type``` – learn how to use the never type that contains no value.

```Union Types``` – guide you on how to store a value of one or several types in a variable with the union type.

```Type Aliases``` – show you how to define new names for types using type aliases.

```String Literal Types``` – learn how to define a type that accepts only a specified string literal.

```Type Inference``` – explain where and how TypeScript infers types of variables.Type Annotation – learn how to use type annotation to define the static type for variables, function parameters, and return values.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 3 Control Flow Statements

Learn how to control flow statement.

```if…else``` – learn how to execute code based on a condition.

```switch..case``` – show you how to use the switch statement to allow a number of possible execution paths.

```for``` – create a loop that executes a specified number of times.

```while``` – create a pretest loop that executes as long as a condition is true.

```do…while``` – learn how to create a posttest loop that executes until a condition is false.

```break``` – show you how to use the break statement to terminate a loop or a switch.

```continue``` – learn how to skip to the end of a loop and continue the next iteration.

--------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 4 Functions

Learn how to use functions.

```Functions``` – learn how to declare a function that uses type annotation in TypeScript.

```Function types``` – guide you on how to use function types to define types for functions.

```Optional Parameters``` – show you how to define functions with optional parameters.

```Default Parameters``` – introduce you to default parameters.

```Rest Parameters``` – use the rest parameters to handle an infinite number of arguments of a function.

```Function overloadings``` – learn how to establish between parameter types and results of a function via function overloadings.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 5 Classes
learn about TypeScript classes and how to use them.

```Classes``` – learn how to construct a class in TypeScript.

```Access Modifiers``` – introduce you to private, protected, and public access modifiers.

```The readonly Modifier``` – learn how to use the readonly modifier to make class properties immutable.

```Getters & Setters``` – show you how to use the getters and setters to control the access of the class properties.

```Inheritance``` – learn how to use the inheritance to reuse the functionality of another class.

```Static methods & properties``` – define static methods and variables shared by all instances of a class.

```Abstract Classes``` – explain the abstract classes that define some common behaviors.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 6 Interfaces
Learn about TypeScript interfaces and how to use them to enforce type checking.

```Interfaces``` – introduce you to interfaces and how to use them for creating contracts within your code.

```Extending Interfaces``` – learn how to extend an interface to create a combination of interfaces.


---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 7 Advanced types
Learn about TypeScript advanced types and how to use them.

```Intersection Types``` – show you how to create a new type that has all features of existing types.

```Type Guards``` – learn how to use type guards to narrow the type of a variable within a conditional block.

```Type Casting``` – show you how to use type casting to convert a variable of one type to another.

```Type Assertions``` – guide you on how to use a type assertion to tell the compiler to treat a value as a specified type.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 8 Generics

Learn about TypeScript generics and how to use them.

```Generic constraints``` – show you how to add constraints to the generic types.

```Generic Classes``` – guide you on how to develop generic classes.

```Generic Interfaces``` – walk you through the steps for creating generic interfaces.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 9 Modules

Learn about TypeScript modules and how to use them.

```TypeScript Modules``` – introduce you to modules in TypeScript and how to use them in other modules.


---------
<!-- toc -->
## Step 10 node.js TS

Learn how to automate the development workflow for using TypeScript in a Node.js project.

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Help for cases
Help for case: ```camelCase, kebab-case, PascalCase, snake_case``` and etc

### [help-for-case-types.md](https://github.com/Leitirion/ts-some-examples/blob/master/help-for-case-types.md)

---------
<!-- toc -->
## Eslint for TS

Now you can use Eslint for check .ts files:
```bash
npm run lint
```
---------

## Contacts
:writing_hand: :iphone: Telegram - [**@Leitirion**](https://t.me/leitirion)
